in earlier videos that said over and
over that when you're developing a
machine learning system one of the most
valuable resources is your time as the
developer in terms of picking what to
work onyx or if you have a team of
developers or a team of engineers
working together on a machine learning
system again one of the most valuable
resources is the time of the engineers
or the developers working on the system
and what you really want to avoid is if
you know you or your colleagues your
friends spend a lot of time working on
some component only to realize after
weeks or months of time spent that all
that work you know just doesn't make a
huge difference on the performance of
the final system in this video what I'd
like to do is talk about something
called ceiling analysis when you when
you when you have a team working on the
pipeline machine learning system this
can sometimes give you a very strong
statement or very strong guidance on
what parts of the pipeline might be the
best use of your time to work on to talk
about ceiling analysis I'm going to keep
on using the example of the photo OCR
pipeline and said earlier each of these
boxes text detection interactive
segmentation character recognition each
of these boxes can have even a small
engineering team working on it or maybe
the entire system is just bought by you
either way but the question is where
should you allocate resources of which
of these boxes is most worth your effort
trying to improve the performance of in
order to explain the idea of ceiling
analysis I'm going to keep using the
example of our photo OCR pipeline as I
mentioned earlier each of these boxes
here you should be as machine learning
components could be the work of even a
small team of engineers or maybe it
could be the whole system could be built
by just one person but the question is
where should you allocate scarce
resources and status which of these
components on which one or two or maybe
all three of these components this most
worth your time to try to improve the
performance of so here's that their
ceiling analysis
as in the development process for other
machine learning systems as well in
order to make decisions on what to do
for developing the system is going to be
very helpful to have a single row number
evaluation metric for this learning
system so let's say we pick character
level accuracy so if you're given a test
set image what is the fraction of
alphabets of characters in the tested
image that we recognize correctly or you
can pick some other single real number
evaluation metric if you want but you
know the let's say that for whatever the
evaluation metric we pick we get that we
find that the overall system currently
has 72% accuracy so in other words we
have some set of test set images and
from each test set images we run it
through text section then character
segmentation and interactive recognition
and we find that on our test set the
overall accuracy of the entire system
was 72% on whatever metric you chose now
here's the idea behind ceiling analysis
which is that we're going to go to let's
say the first module of a machine
learning pipeline say text detection and
what we're going to do is we're going to
monkey around the test we're going to go
to test set and in for every test
example we're just gonna provide it the
correct text detection outputs rights in
other words we're going to go to the
test set and just manually tell the
algorithm where the text is in each of
the test examples so in other words it's
going to you know simulate what happens
if we have a text detection system with
a hundred percent accuracy for the
purpose of detecting text in an image
and really the way you do that is pretty
simple right instead of letting your
learning algorithm detect the text in
the images you want to say go to the
images and just manually label what is
the location of the text in my test set
image and you would then let these
correct or let these ground truth labels
of whereas the text be part of your test
set and just use these ground truth
labels as what you feed in to the next
stage of the pipeline so the character
segmentation pipeline
yeah so just said again by putting a
checkmark over here what I mean is I'm
going to go to my test set and just give
it the correct answers give it the
correct labels for the text detection
part of the pipeline so that is as if I
have a perfect text detection system on
my test set what we're going to do then
is run this data through the rest of the
pipeline through the character
segmentation and character recognition
and then use the same evaluation metric
as before to measure what is the overall
accuracy of the entire system and with
perfect text detection hopefully the
performance go up and in this example
let's say it goes up 89% and then we're
going to keep going next let's go to the
next stage of the pipeline to character
segmentation so again I'm going to go to
my test set and now I'm going to give it
the correct text detection output and
give it the correct character
segmentation output so I'm just go to
the test set and manually label three
correct segmentations of the text into
individual characters and see how much
that helps and nothing goes up to 90
percent accuracy for the overall system
right so as always the accuracy is the
accuracy of the overall systems and so
whatever the final output of the
character recognition system is whatever
the final output of the overall pipeline
is going to measure the accuracy of that
and then finally I'm going to go to the
character recognition system and give
that the correct labels as well and if I
do that too then you know no surprise I
should get a hundred percent accuracy
now the nice thing about having done
this analysis is we can now understand
what is the potential upside of the
upside potential for improving each of
these components so we see that if we
get perfect text detection our
performance went up from 72 to 89% so
that's a 17% performance gain so this
means that if we take a current system
and we spend a lot of time improving
text detection that means that we could
potentially improve our systems
performance by 17% this seems to seems
like is well worth our while whereas in
contrast when you know going from text
detection when we gave it a perfect
character segmentation performance went
up only by 1% so that's a more sobering
message you mean
that you know no matter how much time
you spend on character segmentation may
be the upside potential is going to be
pretty small and maybe you do not want
to have a large team of engineers
working on character segmentation if the
sort of analysis shows that you know
even when you give it the perfect
character segmentations your performance
goes up by only 1% that is really
estimates what is the ceiling or what's
an upper bound on how much you can
improve the performance your system by
working on one of these components and
finally going from characters when we
get better character recognition the
performance went up by 10% so you know
again you decide there's a 10%
improvement how much does that work your
well but this tells you that maybe with
more efforts bent on the last stage of
the pipeline you can improve the system
you can improve the performance of the
systems as well another way of thinking
about this is that by going through this
sort of analysis you trying to figure
out you know what is the upside
potential D of improving each of these
components or how much could you
possibly gain if one of these components
became absolutely perfect and this
really places an upper bound on the
performance of that system so the idea
of ceiling analysis is pretty important
let me just illustrate this idea again
but with a different example of a more
complex one let's say that you want to
do face recognition from images so
unless you want to look at the picture
and recognize you know whether or not
the person in this picture is a
particular friend of yours I would try
to recognize the person shown in this
image this is a slightly artificial
example this isn't actually how face
recognition is done in the practice but
another step through an example of a
sort of what a pipeline might look like
to give you another example of how a
ceiling analysis process might might
look so we have a camera image and let's
say that we design a pipeline as almost
you know let's say the first thing you
want to do is do pre-processing of the
image so let's take this image like that
have shown on the upper right unless
they want to remove the background so do
people see that
Pierce Nix we want to say detect the
face of the person that's usually done
with a learning algorithm to run the
sliding windows classifier to you know
draw a box around the person's face
having detected the fades it turns out
that if you want to recognize people it
turns out that the eyes is a highly
useful to you we have a way actually in
terms of you know recognizing your
friends the appearance of their eyes is
actually one of the most important